#DRAFT

_This is a *draft* data sharing declaration._

##Yeti Data Sharing Declaration

The Yeti Project has standards for data sharing that all Participants
agree to. Each Participant must make a declaration that they will
follow these standards.

"Participant" in this declaration means anyone that wishes to either
submit or access Yeti Data. For example, this includes operators of
Yeti root servers, operators of resolvers using those servers, or Yeti
researchers. Only Participants who have executed this Data Sharing
Declaration may submit or have access to Yeti Data.

"Yeti Data" means data files provided by Participants or generated by
Yeti systems or Participants and residing on Yeti systems with the
intention of sharing. Examples of Data include, but are not limited
to: (a) raw packet captures, generally in the form of “pcap” files;
(b) name server query log files; (c) archived zone files; and (d)
other types of log files relating to network traffic, attacks, or
application transactions.

1. Types of Data.
    1. Raw: data submitted by Participants (for example pcap
       captures);
    2. Generated: data generated by Yeti systems and applications 
       (for example Benchmarks, Monitoring);
    3. Derivative: data derived by analysis from one or more Raw data
       sets.

2. Categories of Data.

    1. Confidential. Unless otherwise specified at the time of
       submission or generation, all Data shall be deemed
       Confidential and may not be disseminated to any parties,
       whether or not they are Yeti Participants. All such
       Confidential Data may be used by Yeti Participants, provided
       that they (i) shall hold all Confidential Data in the highest
       confidence, (ii) shall not disclose, disseminate or publicize
       any Confidential Data to any person or entity, and (iii) shall
       take all action necessary or appropriate to hold all
       Confidential Data in the highest confidence.

    2. Exceptions to Confidentiality. Confidential Data shall not
       include: (A) Data already in possession of the non-disclosing
       party through lawful means or through independent development,
       (B) Data which are publicly available when received or
       thereafter becomes publicly available through no fault of the
       non-submitting party, and (C) Data which are required to be
       disclosed as a result of a final order of a court of competent
       jurisdiction in a proceeding in which the submitting party has
       had a reasonable opportunity to contest disclosure.
    
    3. Non-Confidential. If a Participant wishes certain Data to be
       treated as Non-Confidential, Participant shall clearly
       designate such Data at the time of submission or generation as
       Non-Confidential Data. All such Non-Confidential Data may be
       disseminated to any parties, whether or not they are Yeti
       Participants.

3. Submission of Data. Each time Participant submits any Data to
   Yeti, Participant must designate what restrictions, if any, are to
   be placed on the Data. This includes whether such Data are
   Confidential or Non-Confidential, attributable or anonymous,
   whether redistributable or not, and so forth, as appropriate.
   Participant is solely responsible for designation of any applicable
   restrictions. In the absence of any such designated restrictions,
   the Data submitted shall be deemed to be Confidential. Certain data
   collected will have defined designations.  Participant is solely
   responsible for designation of any applicable restrictions if none
   have been otherwise defined.

4. Source-Identifying Data. Participant may choose, at its own
   discretion, to “anonymize” source-identifying elements (for example
   IP addresses) prior to submitting Data.

5. Participant Use of Data. Participant shall not use or circulate
   Confidential Data within its own organization or its affiliates
   (that is, entities controlled by or under common control with
   Participant) other than as strictly necessary on a need-to-know
   basis, and then with appropriate written confidentiality
   agreements. In no event shall Participant cause, permit or enable
   any third party to have access to or use Confidential Data in any
   manner whatsoever. In no event shall Participant (or anyone to
   whom it discloses Confidential Data) package or repackage any
   Confidential Data into a commercial product or service.
